= HumanQL

* http://github.com/dekellum/human-ql
* http://rdoc.gravitext.com/human-ql/

== Description

Human Query Language for full text search engines. Provides a lenient
parser and associated tools for a self-contained and search-engine
agnostic query language suitable for use by end users. Lenient in that
is will produce a parse tree for any input, given a default operator
and by generally ignoring any unparsable syntax. Suitable for use by
end users in that it supports potentially several operator variants
and a query language not unlike some major web search and other
commercial search engines.

The query language supports the following features at a high level:

* Boolean operators: AND (infix), OR (infix), NOT (prefix) with an
  implied default operator and precedence rules,
  e.g. "boy or girl -infant"

* Optional parenthesis for explicitly denoting precedence.

* Quoted phrases (for proximity matching)

* Declarable prefix scopes, e.g. "TITLE:(car or bike)"

The main components are each highly customizable:

HumanQL::QueryParser — Parses any arbitrary input string and outputs an
Abstract Syntax Tree (AST)

HumanQL::TreeNormalizer — Normalizes and imposes limits on an AST,
e.g. avoids pathological queries.

HumanQL::QueryGenerator — Given an AST, generates a Human Query
Language string.

HumanQL::PostgreSQLGenerator — Given an AST, generate strings suitable
for passing to PostgreSQL's to_tsquery function.

Other generators are possible.

== License

Copyright (c) 2016 David Kellum

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License.  You
may obtain a copy of the License at:

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied.  See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License.
